my name is Bill Magnuson I am the
co-founder and CEO at Brays we were
founded in 2011 and actually I was the
CTO until 2017 and so
um have a a lot to kind of talk about in
our history today it's obviously an
important Moment In Time across the
whole markets we heard from Jason
earlier a lot of the pressures that you
know a lot that this entire Community is
under from a venture perspective from an
overall Market perspective but what I
want to really focus on today is that
you know when change is happening even
if you know surface level we look at it
it feels like negative change there's
always opportunity in that but parsing
through the opportunity trying to find
the parts of it that are enduring
finding the parts that are not the kind
of surface level vanity metrics that a
lot of the hype tends to focus on but
the things that are actually going to
have staying power which often take a
while to percolate and mature and really
settle in you know those are the places
where you can really build enduring
differentiation and build enduring
businesses and so I'm gonna talk through
the story of braze and how we really
process that from a market perspective
introduce a few mental models for people
to use and and I hope you find this
helpful along the way
so you know of course always start this
out with uh the from humble beginnings
photo uh this is actually me and my uh
co-founder John Hyman back in 2011. this
is at the third ever wework in the
Meatpacking District in New York and if
you look on the ground there fun fact
wework has run out of money more than
once uh the first time was actually when
they were outfitting that office space
and they left us with bare concrete
floors uh in this like nice little uh
oven box uh up on the the top floor and
you know we started off July 2011 we had
a huge amount of conviction in Mobile as
I mentioned I was a CTO John Hyman is
today's CTO so we had two technical
co-founders to start out with which is a
a great privilege as you're starting to
you know build a new product and
actually braze which is well known for
selling to marketers today actually sold
the developers back then because mobile
apps at the time didn't have business
models they weren't making money and
when you don't have a business model you
usually don't have marketers and so we
were actually building for people that
were building apps as developers it was
it was pretty nice because as a
developer being able to build something
that is used by you know people that you
understand was really amazing and you
know an interesting fact and we'll kind
of dig into this a little bit later back
in 2012 when we launched our beta we had
more developers sign up for the we were
called Apple at the time for the appboy
beta then we even have customers today
12 years later having gone public and
now worth you know billions of dollars
and so you know take take that away a
little bit and really
um you know reflect on what that means
as you're building your business and the
metrics that you focus on you know we
were so excited about that in the early
days there was felt like there was a
gold rush around mobile apps and now
here we are more than a decade later
still have less customers than the
number of developer signups we had for
our beta and of course the reason being
that that wasn't the right metric to
focus on and what we've really built for
was the enduring change that happened in
the market
so brace today I mentioned you know
found in 2011 we're coming up on our 12
year anniversary this summer we were
headquartered in New York City to start
with uh but London was also our first
International office and today is our
second largest office globally I like to
say that the center of gravity for braze
exists Somewhere over the North Atlantic
it is not Somewhere over the United
States uh and you know we're probably a
very global company today about 43 of
our Revenue comes from outside of the
United States and an interesting uh kind
of fact about that is that I get
questions from public market investors
about you know why such a huge mix of
our Revenue as as a relatively young
company comes from outside of the U.S
I always have to laugh at that because I
got the same question we erased our
series B all the way back in like 2014
2015. the answer of course was that the
app stores were Global you know when we
were when we first opened our London
Office three of our four largest
customers were based out of Oslo Armenia
and Berlin even though we had no humans
on the ground outside of the United
States the opportunity that was
presented by these increasingly
interconnected markets didn't respect
borders and it created huge amounts of
opportunity led to a lot of change and
you know we we therefore have then grown
globally in order to service a global
customer base uh today that customer
base the combined user bases of all of
our customers are are almost 5 billion
monthly active users we sent over 2
trillion messages last year we processed
over 11 trillion data points in order to
understand when when to send those
messages where to deliver them what to
say I mean we do we help all of these
brands that we work with manage their
customer relationships you know really
work through the foundation of what
creates an enduring and durable business
in investing in long-term connection
retention and doing it through high
quality engagement
and so of course what we want to talk
about today is finding opportunities
through change and there's a few
different ways to think about change
there's the pace of change there's
different cross currents in it we we
kind of move through change in sequences
and I think a really another really
important part of change is that
we also need to look at the fact that
even Perce even change we might perceive
as negative still creates opportunities
in fact when I was checking in here
earlier today the the person at the
check encounter asked me you know what's
your talk about and I um you know and I
I gave a brief abstract to it and she
said so what's the answer do you just
you just wait it out
and of course not right the companies
that are going to win are the ones that
are going to actually predict what the
change is leading to and start building
for that tomorrow right now so that when
it gets there you actually have a head
start on all the competition and the
market arrives and it's waiting for you
or you're when the market arrives you've
been waiting for it in fact when I look
at the purpose of venture capital it's
not to you know burn a dollar five in
order to grow a dollar of Revenue it's
to give you that opportunity to already
be building for the market while it is
still developing you know when we were
building Apple we actually had an
interesting
um vertical focus in the sense that from
2011 to 2015 the only part of the mobile
market that was making money was in
Mobile gaming
but what we saw in mobile games at the
time were a bunch of you know apps that
were tricking children into buying fish
food by clicking on the in-app purchase
button a bunch of times or just like
milking their whales and trying to move
them from one title to the next these
weren't sustainable businesses but we
believe that actually people would move
their their lives you know their the
products and services that they were
consuming the habits that they had into
Mobile and so Apple in the early days
kind of went after the Nash equilibrium
in the market we were like hey why don't
we chase after all the other verticals
well all of our you know all of our
future competitors are focused on gaming
and then as that market grows up which
we believed would you know eventually be
much larger than just gaming was we'd be
ready for it and we would have a
platform that was already built to be
more versatile versatile and to be more
and vertically Diversified and of course
that took more time but it's exactly
what happened and so when you look at
brace today we are a super Diversified
customer base our largest vertical
contributes to kind of low 20 percent of
our Revenue it's it's Ecom which is
pretty common for a marketing company
but you know if you look you're right
down the list you've got media and
streaming you've got Financial Services
you've got health and wellness you've
got qsr and delivering On Demand right a
really Diversified customer base and
it's because in the early days we didn't
chase after the same ball everyone else
was we took a step back and we said you
know what's really changing in the
market and how is that going to create a
more broad opportunity
now when we talk about acceleration we
can't also ignore the fact that these
Cycles are moving faster than they ever
have now this is a chart
um originally from The Economist but
augmented a little bit uh the time until
25 of Americans have adopted the
subsequent Technologies
and you know the the headline here is
that things are speeding up obviously
you know the amount of time it took for
the television 26 years smartphones only
three years
but there's there's another layer of
change here which is like this was the
time until a quarter of Americans you
know pick these things up
how long until they affected an election
you know how long until someone wrote a
PhD thesis on these how long until you
know a new job title was created in
order to work on these how long until uh
you know how long until there was mass
adoption until it went Global when we
look at smartphones interestingly enough
it's the most widely deployed technology
ever even more so than clean water and
electricity before it that level of
penetration you know had never been seen
before and that's why these markets that
are addressable through mobile are so
large they're so Global they allow such
rapid adoption but of course the flip
side is that we still get things in the
post you know that we need to read and
reply to the BBC is still broadcasting
shortwave radio all these years later
right there are there are things that
are enduring just uh just a couple weeks
ago in the United States the first NBA
team tried to cut the cord if you will
and their their Regional sports
broadcaster went bankrupt and they tried
to go direct to Consumer over streaming
and that company in bankruptcy sued them
and enforced their contract and
disallowed them from being able to go
straight to streaming so they're still
on the local cable broadcast right there
are aspects of change that actually hold
us back that are that are enduring where
skill sets need to evolve where
regulatory systems need to evolve and
there are other places where this
speed's up right we uh Microsoft bought
and divested Nokia in just three years
right at the time from Uber launching to
uh the the New York City Taxi Medallion
prices crashing was substantially faster
than the multiple decades that it took
for Kodak to slowly die right there's
there's a lot of different kind of
forces that are entrenched that can slow
down this change over time but you know
of course the other side of that is that
when you look at how things like job
titles skill sets industry structures
budgets org charts regulatory regimes
right these things that are kind of tied
to the structures that we as humans
create when they evolve that creates
enduring change an enduring advantage
and so as an entrepreneur I think we
need to keep both of these things in our
minds you know one is that yes things
are changing very quickly but two they
interact with a lot of things that
change more slowly and so the things
that move fast create these new
opportunities these new toe holds in the
market these new technologies to
leverage these new ways of working but
we need to make sure that we're pacing
ourselves correctly and that if we're
trying to build a generational business
that we know what's still going to be
true in five years and ten years and
that we're really building to have
Advantage as those things develop
now of course the other consequence of
these really huge Global markets is that
the pace at which consumer Technologies
are being adopted is rapidly advancing
as well and here we can see the time to
100 million users you know and you've
got chat TPT down there in the bottom
right really crushing it recently and
you know this means that user attention
can move really quickly like this is
another Testament to just the size and
scale of these Global markets but again
we need to look at these and say you
know what what change are these going to
drive for humans when we look at the
last five years there's been a lot of
places where change is accelerated we
looked at you know covet a lot of
people's ways of working change a lot of
the ways that we organize our society
that we transacting Commerce changed
rapidly
but a lot of stuff have also kind of
returned back to the you know the to the
prior growth line Ecom pulled forward
tremendously and now it's Revisited its
prior growth path almost exactly when we
look at you know a lot of the a lot of
the patterns of behavior that people
have had it turns out that humans still
like each other right we still like
socializing um it turns out that you
know a lot of the companies that said
they were never coming back into the
office are now mandating that people do
right and and I kind of look at a lot of
those things and you know at the early
days of covet I actually went back and
and read a lot about the 1918 epidemic
which you know impacted Global Society
in the very Sim in a very similar way
and the interesting thing about it is
that there wasn't actually a lot to read
about it's not a lot there's no art
there's no theater there's no movies
that were made about it you don't really
learn about it in school and you know
the reason for that was that people kind
of moved on afterward right they
actually even though it was highly
disruptive to the entire economy humans
got back to being humans pretty quickly
after they forgot about it and of course
seeing that now too and so I think it's
really you know important to keep both
of these things in our heads at the same
time massive opportunity because of the
size of these markets and how fast they
can move but at the end of the day you
know there's these enduring facts about
humans that if we lose sight of those we
lose the ability to build businesses
that are enduring
so you know big takeaway here as we're
thinking about growing a business and
now especially when we're so focused we
need to be so focused on prioritization
because of access to Capital you need to
reserve your conviction and your focus
for change it's going to endure
if you're just chasing shiny things
around you know a new one pops up every
six months and you're gonna you're gonna
run out of energy you're gonna run out
of financing you're gonna
um you know you're gonna exhaust the
startup and when you get there you know
of course everyone else is chasing the
same ball around it's like a bunch of
you know eight-year-olds out on the
football pitch who are just running
after the ball as opposed to actually
playing a strategy don't be that version
of a startup
so going back to our story you know what
was the change that we thought would
endure well we had this in two stages
the first one that new brands would be
born and built to be mobile first
in 2011 you know obviously people were
excited about the iPhone but the biggest
apps in the App Store were a flashlight
app and a compass app and you know some
where a game where you could uh where
you could feed fish food to an animated
fish right these were fun and they were
exciting but they weren't building
sustainable business models yet and so
we believe this to be true in 2011
but we didn't really start to get
product Market fit around real at scale
mobile businesses until around 2014 or
2015. it actually took three or four
years of quiet building through that
time period we raised our you know our
seed round or series a our series B in
each one of those rounds we only got one
term sheet and we actually ran out of
money twice and had to float you know a
small loan in order to make payroll
we were building for a future that we
knew was coming and that we had
conviction was coming but it really
wasn't there yet
and now the second part was that the
Enterprise would be transformed by
Mobile in that same time period 2014
2015 when we started to see this first
uh you know this first leg of the stool
for product Market fit happen with these
digital first companies the mobile
natives you know the we called them the
mobile Titans at the time because they
were high scale companies even though
many of them were young and had a small
number of people
the Enterprise you know in the early
days they would build mobile apps and we
would chase them and and we even signed
a few exciting Enterprise contracts but
they were all in these little Innovation
teams and you know many of them had not
really rethought their own business
models they were succumbing to the same
problem that I've just warned everyone
about which is that the Enterprises saw
mobile and they saw the excitement and
the opportunity but they didn't really
think about what is the enduring change
going to be how is my consumer going to
behave you know a couple years from now
once they've integrated mobile into
their lives how do I need to change the
delivery mechanism of my whole company
you know and there's a there's a lot of
talk about you know do you burn the
boats or not how do you do that it's
like you know the Enterprise was so far
from burning the boats when it came to
Mobile in 2015 but we knew that they
were an important part of our future and
so you know as we built our business we
kept these two stages in mind we knew
that the mobile first companies were
going to drive our few our early growth
and that the Enterprise would be where
we would cement our future but we had to
be patient we had to wait for you know
things like org charts to change we had
to wait for budgets to show up we had to
wait for Enterprise thinking to kind of
lose its momentum and not be so
entrenched we had to we had to it'll
wait for the competitive landscape and a
lot of the technology architectures that
a lot of these Enterprises deploy
um to really shake itself out but today
you know I mentioned earlier that the
number of customers brace has today is
less than the number of developer
signups we had for our first beta you
know a big reason is because we were you
know focused on actually looking at both
sides of this business we knew that the
Enterprise was in our future and so we
were building for that even in the early
days
and another aspect
of that early conviction and really
deciding where we were going to exist in
the market is that we believe that
because of changing consumer sentiment
and because of the way that we would
adopt mobile technology that increasing
levels of sophistication would continue
to be rewarded in customer engagement
which meant that you know if you were
still just kind of blasting out emails
to everyone as people had been doing
with the likes of a you know what is now
called Salesforce marketing Cloud that
that would eventually just stop working
that if you were going to actually
engage people through digital messaging
through these mediums that you're going
to have to you know invest in building
up what today we call first party data
so you could have a stronger
understanding of the customer you'd have
to integrate into the product experience
and not just be kind of coming in over
the top as many people's email
strategies did that you need to be able
to coordinate across different channels
you'd have to personalize the content to
be more relevant you'd want to analyze
the results as they come in in
collaboration with the data team now you
know when we started the company and you
heard it kind of in the early really
in that early video reel the job titles
that we sell to today and the teams that
we sell to today actually didn't exist
and a big part of that is because the
kind of practice of customer engagement
that we see today where it's data driven
it's agile it brings together marketing
teams with product teams and data teams
that model of working didn't exist and
you know the marketer today versus 10
years ago has become much more data
Savvy they become much more technical
you can count on them to know basic
scripting many of them are many of them
are are comfortable in HTML and other
things none of those things were the
case 10 years ago and so we had these
evolving skill sets amongst the marketer
but more importantly we also had
evolving collaborative models the
marketer started working with the
engineers started working with data
scientists they started integrating into
broader Technical architectures and
those were the changes that actually
ended up enduring over time and so you
know one of the major takeaways here is
that when you're trying to figure out
what change is going to endure through a
market go back to the humans who are the
humans that you're selling to
how is their job evolving what skill
sets are they investing in what does it
take for them to get promoted you know
how do you turn your early Champions
into people that become the future
Business Leaders of Tomorrow so they can
you know spread your technology that
your Champions gain these positions of
authority that they move from place to
place and bring your software with them
to other companies the the teams and the
budgets and the org charts and the skill
sets that people invest in and the way
that they develop their career paths and
they build their careers around your
technology are one of the most enduring
aspects of you know really building any
generational software company and so
when you're looking at change you know
make sure that you're looking at these
things that people invest in that move a
little bit more slowly because those are
exactly the things that are sticky
and so you know we uh Jason talked
earlier about the triple triple double
double and actually mentioned uh Niraj
Agarwal as a person who uh you know kind
of famous for coining that uh fun fact
Niraj actually invested in Braves right
in the middle of this chart and so that
8X in two years is a um you know almost
that triple triple and we we actually
went through and on on some framing here
we're triple triple double double uh
with neurologist help actually uh and
you know this was obviously a super
exciting period and um right after that
you know we went from 20 to 200 7xing in
four years
but I I like to kind of look at these
graphs and then also look at what a lot
of people were including in their VC
decks at the same time
so here were Global smartphone sales so
2011 we're founded it's a little bit to
the left there and obviously this is
this looks like exponential growth right
it looks like a hockey stick 2 million
to 20 million so you know we go out and
we uh we raise that financing round with
nerage and you look at the start and
you're like ah it's slowing a little bit
no that's
it's not great
um and then 20 to 200 million not only
does it slow but it actually like
flattens out and declines right this was
a vanity metric for our industry the
smartphone sales you know were obviously
that created all this excitement in the
early days but What mattered was
actually that the install base was
growing right we didn't need people to
be buying a new phone every single year
or or all these new people what what
happened here is that we interconnected
the entire world so even though you look
at a chart like this and you're like oh
that looks like flatlining and
declining growth right the important
aspect of this chart was what it was
doing to the install base let's look at
another one I remember this being in uh
in in all of our fundraising decks as
well in the early days these were the
number of apps and games in the App
Store
growing you know meteorically in those
early days you know just blasted right
up again flatlined went down but these
numbers are in the Millions two million
apps and games in the App Store we own
we have less than 2 000 customers even
today
right so this was exciting but it didn't
really matter
the fact that there were millions of
apps in the App Store are like pretty
Irrelevant for a SAS business that you
know like I said even today only has
2000 customers so what did matter
well this is the revenue that they were
generating the revenue of mobile apps
worldwide was growing that whole time it
took time for customers to trust you
know enough to put their credit card
into a smartphone and for the cell
networks to get faster and for the
install base to get there and for these
mobile apps to actually have business
models and be focused on building
enduring relationships and and
recurring revenue and when that happened
that was what really enabled our growth
and our ability to go to scale
so you know the the tale of of this is
that you know there's there's the
numbers and there's the surface level
change and then there's the enduring
change right and what this meant here is
that people were actually building
durable businesses in Mobile and that
was actually what we were tied to in
terms of our growth
and so I'll end this section with this
uh I think a quote which which gets uh
gets more mutated almost every time it
gets repeated I tried to tried to go
back to the original source as far back
as I could um all the way back in 1981
but I think the the interesting takeaway
with this is that both of these things
are true for the same reason
which is that the real enduring change
has to interact with systems and humans
and you know budgets and government and
governments and and and the Enterprise
and all these things that yes they move
faster today than they used to but
they're still tied to these truths about
humans and organizations and structures
and everything else and so you know the
the surface level change shows up and it
moves super rapidly and it builds a ton
of excitement and you know that's a it's
a really awesome thing
but the change that endures actually
also creates substantially more impact
and so that's you know that's actually
good news in a couple ways but what it
requires for each one of you as an
entrepreneur is to really be able to
take a step back from that hype and make
sure that you know you really understand
what part of this change is going to
endure if you build for that that's how
you build a generational company
all right so from there how do we then
decide how fast we want to grow and this
is a particularly important in the
current Venture environment as Jason
just detailed a lot of now my job right
before we started Braves back in 2011 I
worked at a hedge fund
Bridgewater Associates in Connecticut
and during your onboarding you know
there's a session that you do with one
of the chief investment officers and he
goes up on the Whiteboard
and draws out these three Investments
here
and the question is posed you know as an
investor which of these would you rather
invest in
and you know a lot of people look at
this and it looks on its face like a
question of like how much volatility can
you stomach how patient are you as an
investor
right but it's actually a trick question
because the only one of these that
actually exists as a hedge fund is
letter A
letter B took too long to get off the
ground and it never actually attracted
early investment and so that that fund
actually shut down before it even got to
its inflection point and letter C they
overheated early on you know they raised
a Down Round on the way down there in
the hedge fund World they would have
shut down in order to uh in order to
capture their performance fee and they
went and started a new hedge fund under
a different name so they could establish
a new high water mark right
um you know whatever whatever the
function is they don't actually get out
of that trough and never get the
opportunity to come back up and so in
you know in in this case this is the the
Hedgehog world but I think it applies
just as much to startups which is that
you know making sure that you're growing
at the right speed along the way super
important because it's what what gets
that flywheel running it's what builds
the momentum systematically over time
with you know with your teams and the
conviction in the markets and and your
partners and your investors and being
able to raise that fundraising
so okay great what how do we how do we
really think about this though so I like
this um this idea of I so I
and I worked this out and actually
interestingly enough this is a adapted
slide from a presentation that I gave to
my company all the way back in 2014 when
you know we were really
um struggling to see that early product
Market fit you know I mentioned that
that waiting for mobile first companies
to really come to scale took a long time
and you know that's a little
nerve-wracking right you know I had
conviction that it was going to come I
had the patience but that doesn't mean
that everyone shares in your patients at
your company right uh the it's it's
really stressful building a startup in
the early days especially when you're um
you know when you're waiting for for a
product Market fit to show up for us we
felt conviction that we had the product
and the market was was still developing
and it took time and so and then we also
had competitors at the time that had
raised way more money than us they were
spending way more money than us they
were out in the market buying Billboards
and doing sponsored speaking slots and
they thought it was a giant land grab
um that you know where they were just
trying to sign up every logo they could
they didn't have any discipline in their
sales process they were giving things
away for free you know all these things
and you know we were Trucking Along
being patient and one of the ways that I
tried to capture this is these Supply
curves are an idea where if you want to
capture a certain amount of business in
any given year in your Market that curve
is relatively static and so yeah you can
spend huge sums of money in order to you
know move the amount of Revenue you're
going to get in a given year is that
orange dot on the supply curves and so
when your supply curve is relatively
inelastic right when the market is still
immature when you're selling to growth
teams or to data-driven marketers but
data-driven marketers you know don't
exist yet when you're selling to growth
teams and they don't have budgets yet
like those Supply curves are pretty hard
to access because you're trying to push
into change that's coming but it's not
here yet and so yeah you can spend tons
of money in order to access a marginally
higher Market but
if you're patient and you kind of find
that part of the curve that's sufficient
where you're you know you're spending
enough but not too much and then over
time the supply curve is going to swing
out if you're attached to the right
level of change those mobile apps are
going to start to generate more revenues
they're going to have budgets the teams
that you're selling to are going to
start to reform into new org charts
because you know the the successful ones
are going to get modeled they're going
to get written about in TechCrunch or in
disaster or what have you um and other
people are going to start to build out
similar
similar teams CFOs are going to start to
assign budgets to those groups people
are going to invest in you know the
early skill sets they're going to join
things you know for us it was their
mobile growth communities or it was
going through programs like reforge in
order to educate themselves on how to be
an agile marketer right these were all
the systems that were in place that were
kind of processing they were building
the market for us they were starting to
um you know build that opportunity in a
more enduring way and so over the years
the supply curve swings out
and you know this is another way of
thinking about product Market fit as
well is that the better product Market
fit you have the flatter this curve is
going to be for you
the the more kind of efficiently you can
spend more money in order to in order to
access more Market
and if you spend too much money in the
early days when you don't really have
that product Market fit you are you know
if you're effectively pushing a rope you
can torch a lot of money in the early
days trying to push your way up an
inelastic supply curve and when you do
that then you end up like letter C here
right you spend a lot in order to push
up in the early days but if the Market's
not there for you yet you're gonna burn
out
and so you know keeping this in mind and
really understanding like what role do I
have to play in the supply curve I think
when you're a very large company you can
actually go and you can impact these
Supply curves right you can go and you
can give Photoshop away to every high
schooler in the nation and you can you
know you can do all sorts of stuff where
you're going to play the long game
you're going to develop the market over
the course of 10 years you're going to
invest in in influencing University
education and all those kinds of things
and and there's like a lot of amazing
ways to actually impact this over time
but when you're a small startup and you
have limited resources a lot of times
you have to take things like this as a
given and you can go and you can speak
at conferences and you can push your
message and you should do all those
things for sure but know that you know
when you're selling into teams and
people and and you know these other
things that take time to change
sometimes you do need to wait and so
just make sure you know what's impacting
your supply curve and how you can land
in the right place on it
so of course they said you know there's
a the product Market fit corollary to
this
and you need to focus to where your
product Market fit is strongest right
try to be in that little uh try to be
right at that inflection point on these
Supply curves but don't get stuck you
need the supply curve to swing out over
time if you're going to build a business
that's larger and larger and so you know
when we look at this from the braze days
we obviously had these early adopters we
had the the early mobile startups that
we were working with but the area under
the curve matters a lot as well
right when we look at the the pragmatics
the conservatives that early and late
majority that's fully two-thirds of the
overall Market you know in this model
and I think this is is a pretty accurate
one as well a lot of the analysis of
this is is actually
um is focused on crossing over the chasm
and that is an important topic you know
not not for today uh what what I'm
trying to stress here is to really think
about you know how do you transition
through those different Supply curves
how do you look at the change that's
enduring because the reason that that
part of the market is so much bigger the
reason there's so much under the curve
in the early and late majority is
because the early and late majority are
tied to all those change processes that
take longer but also endure more and so
you know you need to build for the early
part of the market that's how you
survive it's how you grow in the early
days but don't let it distract you from
what the unique needs are of the market
that kind of Waits beyond that
and you know one example we had actually
on this in our early days I mentioned uh
earlier that you know the marketers of
today are more likely to you know know
basic scripting and to be able to maybe
write SQL or write HTML or what have you
and we actually had a product that in
the early days assumed that there was
strong collaboration with an engineering
team because in most mobile startups the
marketing team sat right next to the
product team and the engineering team
and they were integrated together
you look at a lot of the Enterprise
businesses we sell to today people that
are coming from like a brick and mortar
Legacy look at an energy company you
know utilities Etc they don't even have
product teams right that that idea that
concept doesn't exist and when their
marketing teams want to build things
they've always gone to the systems
integrators Accenture Deloitte or the
you know wpp Merkel the the big agencies
and that means that you know their team
structures and the the skill sets that
they can lay their hands on easily are
completely different and so we were
building for this more and more
sophisticated more technical faster
moving startup and losing sight of the
fact that actually there were other
features that we needed to build that
assumed that there was no access to
Technical Resources right and that was
actually how we then moved into you know
the the early and then eventually the
late majority to be able to grab much
more of the area under the curve but we
had to understand like what else was
going on in the market and make sure we
didn't get caught in that early stage
and then the last thing that I want to
walk through as it relates to product
strategy as well because of course when
we're prioritizing we're usually
building our product in an ecosystem
and that ecosystem has a lot of other
technical players and it's got um you
know there's inputs there's outputs
there's places in the value chain where
we want to establish our pricing and
capture value et cetera I mean I I
always go back to this quote from Joel
swoski
a long time ago and he's talking about
you know the the this idea of
commoditizing your inputs
right so when you look at your whole
value chain you know what are the
complements to your product so for Brays
you know data first party data is one of
the the strongest examples of this and
so for us you know in order for us to be
able to make rapid decisions I mentioned
that we processed 11 trillion data
points last year to send over 2 trillion
messages that data is absolutely
something where you know we want the the
price of the complement so the price of
getting data into braze we wanted to
decrease over time price has a lot of
different meanings and commoditizing
also has different meanings we look at
it from a technical perspective you know
commoditizing something means making you
know the end thing exactly like the N
plus one right making it so that you've
essentially abstracted away the
differences between these so a way to
you know a lot of times you think about
this in terms of dollars and cents but
another way of thinking about this as
well is in terms of like technical
complexity so if you build a good
abstraction layer a good set of apis you
build a good way for partners to plug in
as you easily as you know as your
customers as easily as your own software
which is what we've done in our data
layer you're effectively commoditizing
your inputs of commoditizing those data
inputs and you're enabling there to be
competition above that abstraction layer
and so uh making this a little bit more
concrete when we look at Brays you know
we're a customer engagement platform so
we want to ingest data in order to
understand more about customers and then
use that understanding in order to
determine the most appropriate act most
appropriate and valuable actions to take
and so you know this is how I think
about the value chain in our Market we
ingest data in the top we then move it
through classification orchestration and
personalization which is where we work
to understand things and then with that
understanding where we take together the
user context and the strategies that the
business has and the user
preferences and behaviors we then take
action we deliver push notifications
emails SMS we change the product
experience we do you know we deliver a
message in an inbox for the next time
they log in etc etc right all those
things kind of come together they're
Consolidated and coordinated
but we always you know inherent in this
is that we've made this decision to
vertically integrate everything in the
middle as soon as the data shows up down
to us talking to people we've made sure
that our software encapsulates all of
that and that we do so in a way that's
tightly vertically integrated so we can
deliver a differentiated product
experience through performance and
scalability and raw capability that we
can invest in usability so that our so
that marketers can sit on top of the
stack and be able to use you know we
have a visual programming language tool
called canvas it lets them actually
design the orchestration of all these
things
but we've also made sure that we have a
really strong abstraction layer over the
message channels and we have a really
strong abstraction layer over the data
so the data can come in from anywhere it
could come in flexibly from our partners
from data warehouses from direct
Integrations into their products and
services that those complements to our
product that more data comes into us the
better use cases we can run the more
visibility we have into performance the
faster that that data gets to us the
more we can use it to make real-time
decisions that we can optimize
experiments in real time you know we
should not be in any way trying to gate
the data that comes in monetize that
well we want to be able to monetize is
in the middle of our value chain we
price primarily based off of the number
of monthly active users right because we
want to charge a company for what they
care about which is building a customer
relationship that's where we're able to
Value sell the best because we enhance
the value of a customer relationship and
so we're not trying to sell them a
commodity we're trying to sell them a
more valuable customer relationship and
in doing so we want to look look at you
know what are the things that we can put
an abstraction layer over data and
messaging so that we can capture that
value in the middle and then we enable
competition in both of the abstraction
layers and so when you're thinking
through kind of where do I focus what do
I build right we along the way could
have gone and chased down and tried to
build all the stuff in the data world we
could have built our own data warehouses
built our own CDP built this other stuff
and a bunch of our competitors did that
right we also could have gone and tried
to build every channel Under the Sun and
you know we built a small set of them
in-house but we were happy to partner
for a bunch of other ones you know we
even I I mentioned the post earlier we
even can orchestrate direct mail to
people but I'm certainly not going to
buy any heavy machinery to be actually
be printing mail right we're happy to
partner with people on that but we've
abstracted away the details of how that
messaging gets plugged in so that we
could choose where to focus and we put
the vast majority of r d in the middle
of this value chain and that's exactly
where our pricing is and so you align
the pricing the teams that are working
with your product and and you know your
vertical integration and your value
chain together and then you get this r d
Focus that creates that that kind of
creates and compounds that value
and then let the rest of it you know let
the rest of your compliments commoditize
themselves and you'll be in a much
stronger position
all right so that wraps it up uh quick
uh quick summary before we go into q a
you know the first thing up top
obviously change creates opportunity but
remember the change both positive and
negative creates that opportunity so
even if the change looks negative on its
face like we're experiencing a lot of in
today's macro that still change that can
create a window for you to go in and
build value for your company
the next one is that huge businesses are
built on change that endures not change
that you know is this chasing a shiny
thing around or trying to track
ourselves the vanity metrics third one
you know be cognizant of that supply
curve
don't exhaust yourself trying to push a
rope when all you need to do is wait for
the market to evolve make sure that
you're growing at the right speed and
that you know what the drivers are that
are going to enable your growth and at
what pace As you move ahead
fourth one satisfy the demands of today
obviously but don't lose sight on that
bigger tomorrow make sure you know how
your customer Persona is going to change
over time how the market is going to
change over time and that you're
building for that that future
opportunity because it's much larger and
then finally make sure that you're
you're prioritizing by leveraging your
value chain that again you are aware of
what the inputs and the outputs are that
you know where the vertical integration
is the most important and that you're
actually focusing your r d and your
Market development in the same place
that you're generating value for your
customers
and in a perfect world it's also tied
exactly back to that chain just as I
mentioned with the evolution of
marketing teams over time
all right so that does it